Document Apps in any namespaces (#78352)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-creating-and-configuring-user-defined-appproject-instance-with-target-namespaces.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argocd_applications/managing-apps-in-non-control-plane-namespaces.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-creating-and-configuring-user-defined-appproject-instance-with-target-namespaces_{context}"]
= Creating and configuring a user-defined AppProject instance with the target namespaces

> As a cluster administrator, you can define a certain set of non-control plane namespaces wherein users can create, update, and reconcile `Application` resources. Now that you have configured your user-defined cluster-scoped Argo CD instance with target namespaces, you must create and configure a user-defined `AppProject` instance in the `openshift-gitops` control plane namespace. In addition, you must explicitly configure the target namespaces in the `.spec.sourceNamespaces` field of the user-defined `AppProject` instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a cluster administrator, you can define a certain set of non-control plane namespaces in which users can create, update, and reconcile `Application` resources. After you configure your user-defined cluster-scoped Argo CD instance with target namespaces, you must create and configure a user-defined `AppProject` instance in the `openshift-gitops` control plane namespace. In addition, you must explicitly configure the target namespaces in the `.spec.sourceNamespaces` field of the user-defined `AppProject` instance.
```

[NOTE]
====
Applications in the {gitops-shortname} control plane namespace (`openshift-gitops`) are allowed to set their `.spec.project` field to reference any `AppProject` instance, regardless of the restrictions placed by the `.spec.sourceNamespaces` field in the `AppProject` CR.
====

.Prerequisites
* You are logged in to the {OCP} cluster as an administrator.

> * You have installed {gitops-title} 1.13.0  or a later version on your {OCP} cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have installed {gitops-title} 1.13.0 or a later version on your {OCP} cluster.
```

.Procedure

. Create and configure a user-defined `AppProject` instance in the `openshift-gitops` control plane namespace to specify the target namespaces in the `.spec.sourceNamespaces` field:
.. From the *Project* drop-down menu, select the `openshift-gitops` project.
.. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, click *Operators* -> *Installed Operators* -> *{gitops-title}* and go to the *AppProject* tab.
.. Click *Create AppProject* and enter the following configuration in the YAML view:
+
.Example user-defined `AppProject` instance
[source,yaml]
----
kind: AppProject
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: project-one # <1>
  namespace: openshift-gitops # <2>
spec:
  sourceNamespaces: # <3>
  - dev # <4>
  - app-team-* # <5>
----
<1> The name of the user-defined `AppProject` instance.
<2> The control plane namespace where you want to run the user-defined `AppProject` instance.
<3> List of non-control plane namespaces for creating and managing `Application` resources.
<4> The name of the target namespace for the Argo CD server to create and manage `Application` resources.

> <5> With wildcards (`pass:[*]`), specifies the name of the target namespaces matching the pattern `app-team-pass:[*]`, such as `app-team-1`, `app-team-2`, and so on for the Argo CD server to create and manage `Application` resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<5> With wildcards (`pass:[*]`), specifies the name of the target namespaces matching the pattern `app-team-pass:[*]`, such as `app-team-1` and `app-team-2`, for the Argo CD server to create and manage `Application` resources.
```

.. Click *Create*.
+
The *AppProjects* page displays the created user-defined `AppProject` instance. 
+
[NOTE]
====
When a target namespace is specified under the `sourceNamespaces` field, the Operator adds the `argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by-cluster-argocd` label to the specified namespace. 

.Example `dev` target namespace
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: dev
  labels:
    argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by-cluster-argocd: spring-petclinic # <1>
    kubernetes.io/metadata.name: dev # <2>
----
<1> The namespace of the user-defined cluster-scoped Argo CD instance.
<2> The target namespace for the Argo CD server to create and manage `Application` resources.
====

. Verify that Operator adds the `argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by-cluster-argocd` label to the specified namespace:
.. Go to *Administration* -> *Namespaces* and click *Create Namespace*.
.. In the *Create Namespace* dialog box, provide the *Name* and click *Create*.
+

> For example, to create `dev` target namespace, enter `dev` in the *Name* field. You can repeat the previous sub-steps of step 2 to create the `app-team-1` and `app-team-2` target namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to create `dev` target namespace, enter `dev` in the *Name* field. You can repeat the previous steps to create the `app-team-1` and `app-team-2` target namespaces.
```
best not to directly specify step numbers in case something is added later and renumbering happens. I think just saying "previous steps" would be OK.

+
The *Namespaces* page displays the created target namespaces.

> .. Click the target namespace and go to the *YAML* tab to verify the `argocd.argoproj.io/managed-by-cluster-argocd` label added by the Operator.

Reviewer 2: Same as previous comment. Maybe move it to `Configuring the Argo CD CR...` section?
